A Brief Introduction to Artificial Intelligence
What is AI and how is it going to shape the future
By Dibbyo Saha, Undergraduate Student, Computer Science, Ryerson University

What is Artificial Intelligence?

Generally speaking, Artificial Intelligence is a computing concept that helps a
machine think and solve complex problems as we humans do with our intelligence.
For example, we perform a task, make mistakes and learn from our mistakes (At
least the wise ones of us do!). Likewise, an AI or Artificial Intelligence is supposed
to work on a problem, make some mistakes in solving the problem and learn from
the problems in a self-correcting manner as a part of its self-improvement. Or in
other words, think of this like playing a game of chess. Every bad move you make
reduces your chances of winning the game. So, every time you lose against your
friend, you try remembering the moves you made which you shouldn’t have and
apply that knowledge in your next game and so on. Eventually, you get better and
your precision, or in this case probability of winning or solving a problem improves by a noteworthy extent. AI is programmed to do something similar to
that!

A Brief History of AI
The concept of Artificial Intelligence is not as modern as we think it is. This traces
back to as early as 1950 when Alan Turing invented the Turing test. Then the first
chatbot computer program, ELIZA, was created in the 1960s.
IBM deep blue was
a chess computer made in 1977 beat a world chess champion in two out of six
games, one won by the champion and the other three games were draw.
In 2011, Siri was announced as a digital assistant by Apple.
Elon Musk and some others founded OpenAI in 2015.

AI at Work Today! 
 The most common examples of uses of Artificial Intelligence can be found today
in smart personal assistants like Apple’s Siri and Amazon’s Alexa. People interact
with these devices to command them on a daily basis and these devices use the
commands as a part of their dataset to learn from. Another known example of
Artificial Intelligence is the use of algorithms in Netflix. Netflix provides very
much accurate and relevant suggestions of movies, tv series from our data which is
created every time we stream or click on something in Netflix.